For decades, the Danish territory of Greenland has been moving towards [independence](https://moderndiplomacy.eu/2024/03/24/how-greenlands-push-for-independence-could-trigger-an-unprecedented-global-race-for-influence/). Much to the chagrin of Copenhagen, the large – albeit sparsely populated – island territory now appears on the brink of achieving sovereignty. Early this year, discussion about a possible independence referendum circulated within Greenland. Although the referendum was ultimately not put up for a vote, the relationship between Greenland and Denmark is at a [nadir](https://cphpost.dk/2025-01-08/general/greenlands-premier-cancel-will-visit-denmarks-king-after-all/). Greenland’s independence today seems less a question and more a matter of time.
Rather than allowing Greenland and Denmark proper to resolve their disputes in relative privacy, American President Donald Trump has inserted the United States into the situation. In January, shortly before returning to office, Mr. Trump stated his intention to acquire Greenland. In Mr. Trump’s typically bombastic style, he refused to rule out the use of military force.
Greenlanders, many of whom view Denmark as a [colonizing nation](https://www.peopleandmedia.com/understanding-why-greenland-belongs-to-denmark-historical-and-political-insights/), have [little interest](https://www.npr.org/2025/03/13/nx-s1-5325949/greenland-elections-trump-independence) in trading Danish domination for American control. But just because its involvement is unwanted  doesn’t mean the Trump Administration isn’t doing its best to interfere.
In the Administration’s latest salvo on the issue, American Vice President J.D. Vance [visited](https://singjupost.com/transcript-of-jd-vance-remarks-at-pituffik-space-base-in-greenland/?singlepage=1) the Pituffik Space Base this week, located in the Danish territory of Greenland. While at the base, Mr. Vance gave an uncouth speech criticizing the Danish government and delineating an American case to seize the island. Mr. Vance alleged that Denmark has neglected its territory’s security, and declared that American interest in taking control of Greenland is due to poor Danish stewardship of the territory.
In words directed towards Denmark, Mr. Vance laid out his case:
> You have not done a good job by the people of Greenland. You have underinvested in the people of Greenland and you have underinvested in the security architecture of this incredible, beautiful landmass filled with incredible people. That has to change. And because it hasn’t changed, this is why President Trump’s policy in Greenland is what it is.
There is little doubt that Mr. Vance’s remarks mark an escalation. The Vice President of the United States argued in a public speech that territory under the jurisdiction of an American ally should be transferred to the United States; he interfered in another sovereign power’s internal affairs; and he insulted a fellow NATO member. Although Mr. Vance explicitly stated that there are no plans to use force to acquire Greenland, he made it very clear that the Trump Administration backed Greenlander separatism; in a representative quote, Mr. Vance declared that “[w]e believe in the self-determination of the population of the people of Greenland.”
Mr. Vance’s words damage American relations with Denmark and other European Union countries, but do so in a way intended to drive a rift between Greenland and its mother country. His speech is calculated to appeal to the people of Greenland while insulting Copenhagen, in an almost masterful manner. Although there is no doubt that certain members of the Trump Administration are [buffoonish](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/03/25/us/politics/pete-hegseth-signal-chat-pentagon.html); there should be similarly little doubt that Mr. Vance is not among their number.
By targeting Denmark, Mr. Vance may appeal to Greenlanders with grievances against their colonizer. But I doubt that Mr. Vance's words will ultimately succeed in warming Greenlanders to the idea of joining the United States. His speech was filled with the contradictions of a man who doesn’t believe everything he’s saying.
When Mr. Vance complained about Denmark’s lack of investment in Greenland, he failed to provide serious examples; when he discussed military unreadiness, he resorted to using the People’s Republic of China as a boogeyman. And some of his claims seemed absolutely disconnected from reality: Mr. Vance suggested that Denmark should be providing fiscal support for the Pituffik Space Base, an idea bordering on preposterous.
There is no need for Denmark to provide financial support to a U.S. military base; the base doesn’t exist for Denmark’s benefit. The United States maintains a Space Force base in Greenland because it supports American force projection capabilities. The United States and Denmark are allies because they have a wide number of mutual interests, not because Denmark pays protection fees. American military facilities can and should be paid for with American funds, because they exist to support the United States.
It seems unlikely that Mr. Vance really believes his more radical remarks; his leaked texts in the Houthi PC group Signal groupchat make him appear to be one of the most intellectual members of the Trump Administration. Nevertheless, it does seem likely that these comments may serve to weaken the case Mr. Vance is attempting to make to the people of Greenland.
Regardless of what one thinks of Mr. Vance’s claims, Greenland does have serious strategic value: its position between the Atlantic and [Arctic](https://www.forbes.com/sites/tylerroush/2025/03/29/what-to-know-about-pituffik-space-base-as-trump-pushes-to-acquire-greenland-decades-after-us-built-military-site/) basins, untapped [mineral wealth](https://www.mining.com/web/factbox-greenlands-rich-but-largely-untapped-mineral-resources/), and productive potential in a warming world make it a valuable piece of land. But the United States is already able to tap into Greenland’s value: the American military footprint on Greenland allows the U.S. to project force without owning the entire island; the global nature of capitalism provides just as much potential for resource extraction now as under American governance.Whatever long-term benefits may result from American seizures of the territory are decades, if not centuries away.
And taking control of Greenland is unlikely to provide the U.S. with any short-term benefits, but with plenty of medium-term problems. There is little question that the Trump Administration’s decision to interfere in Denmark’s affairs will only further alienate American allies and serve to deepen the United States’ isolation. If the United States were to actually take control of Greenland, it would be perceived by many of its current friends as in the same category as the P.R.C. or Russian Federation: a lawless revanchist superpower to be reviled and feared.