### March 12, 2020
Five years ago today, on March 12, 2020, my world changed.
At the time, I was living in Nuremberg, Germany, as an exchange student on a Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange scholarship. My year had proven wonderful: I had an amazing host family and attended a wonderful school. There are so many things I think about when that year comes to mind, but that very unique week in early March will be forever seared into my mind.
A then-novel coronavirus had arrived in Italy several weeks before. Since then, it had begun spreading inside Germany. Each day, the number of patients and the number of countries impacted seemed to grow.
That Tuesday, March 10, after much analysis of the rapidly changing situation, the State Department informed members of my exchange program that we would remain in Germany despite the rapidly growing outbreak. On Thursday morning, I learned that the Trump Administration had increased the relative risk level of traveling to Europe. Around noon, members of my exchange program received notice that we should pack our bags and prepare to return home in the next 24-72 hours.
Those last few days in Germany were unforgettable. On Friday, my head felt warm, my limbs ached, and I wondered if I had a fever. Did I have it? I decided it was probably just a stress reaction. I remember meeting up with friends for drinking chocolate, my host mother purchasing a monster pretzel for my last breakfast in Nuremberg, saying goodbye to my classmates (and taking a group photo).
At 3:00 A.M. on Sunday, March 15, 2020, my host mother and I took a taxi to the airport. I flew to Frankfurt, joined other members of my exchange program, and then proceeded onwards to Newark on a 787. Most of the seats on the flight were empty; people started just sitting wherever they wanted to. It was as if the world was ending. It was definitely changing; I don’t think I’ve flown on a plane where no one masked ever since. (At the time, masks were scarce and being rationed for medical workers and people with suspected symptoms.)
By the time I landed later that day, the United States was in the process of shutting down. At the airport, we filled out forms about our recent medical history and walked through a line surrounded by C.D.C. people in white scrubs. They checked each person’s temperature as we walked into the customs room. Because I had had symptoms a few days before, I was taken aside and given a mask, before walking through an empty customs line with no one in front of me and no one behind me.
Those days are both unfathomable and unforgettable. In a matter of weeks, the world went from not knowing COVID-19 existed to completely shutting down. Despite the way those days are seared into my memory, they feel surreal, as if they happened to someone else. I watched as the world changed, and yet now I cannot image so dramatic a transformation ever occuring again.