### Israel, Hamas Resume Fighting
In a turn that will probably surprise nobody, Israel and Hamas have resumed fighting one another. Ever since the first phase of the ceasefire ended without a second phase being agreed on, it's felt like it was just a matter of time until one side or the other restarted hostilities.
Early Tuesday morning, Israel [carried out major attacks](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/03/17/world/middleeast/israel-gaza-airstrikes.html) in the Gaza Strip. This isn't the first time Israel has attacked Hamas since the initial phase of the ceasefire began, but it is clearly an escalation, and one that likely indicates that fighting will continue for the foreseeable future.
I feel a deep sense of tragedy looking at the conflict. This endless cycle of violence isn't going to resolve itself, but neither Israel nor Hamas is willing to yield on their priorities. Looking at the declared goals of each side, I can’t help but think that the current bout of violence is unusually zero-sum, even by the standards of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
In Israel, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu likely believes that he will lose reelection and finally go to prison on corruption charges when the war ends. In Gaza, Hamas officials likely believe that they may very well be forced out of power when the war ends, their organization severely weakened. I think don’t think that the leadership on either side of the conflict is personally interested in peace. And if the only people who  can achieve peace are unwilling to try, we're just not going to see peace achieved.
Maybe I'm wrong about either the Israeli or the Gazan leadership. Maybe leadership on one side (or both) is willing to put their civilian population before their personal interests. But even if I’m wrong, as long as the non-negotiable items on the table really are non-negotiable, then Israel and Hamas will not get far with their diplomatic efforts.
War happens when two groups cannot resolve an issue through diplomacy and resort to using force in order to achieve their will. Eventually, one side or both sides decide to settle their interests at a table, with the relative gains and losses from the war shaping who gets what. Right now, it's not really clear to me that either Israel or Hamas has emerged as a clear winner: as I wrote back in February, they're playing [very different games](https://hansonbrook.com/Posts/2025-02-08-between-the-river-and-the-ceasefire.html). Israel is trying to fight a conventional war, while Hamas is waging what is effectively a public relations campaign. They're both winning at their goals.
Winning sides don't make many concessions.