### Presentation Adjustments
It probably doesn't surprise you that I don't regularly read my own blog. After all, I know exactly what it says; not only do I write all of the content, but I often read and re-read it multiple times before publication.
Until now, I didn't think much of this – I have a live server on my computer that hosts a version of this website exclusively accessible to me. As my final step before publication, I generate the HTML for my new long-form post or tidbit and scan it for typographical oddities. After confirming that the formatting is okay, I simply commit and push the post to GitHub.
I was reading some of my older posts today, however, and something struck me: the text column was just too wide to read comfortably. Now, one of the benefits of designing your entire website is that you can adjust it on a whim. But I'd done that originally, much to my chagrin.
It did not take me long to discover a Wikipedia [page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Column_(typography)#:~:text=For%20best%20legibility%2C%20typographic%20manuals%20suggest%20that%20columns%20should%20be%20wide%20enough%20to%20contain%20roughly%2060%20characters%20per%20line.%20One%20formula%20suggests%20multiplying%20the%20point%20size%20of%20the%20font%20by%202%20to%20reach%20how%20wide%20a%20column%20should%20be%20in%20picas%20—%20in%20effect%20a%20column%20width%20of%2024%20ems.) featuring an interesting (if uncited) rule calling for 24 [em.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Em_(typography)) wide columns. I gave it a whirl on my live server, and cringed – with my justified text, the narrow column was filled with awkward spacing gaps.
After some additional experimentation, I settled on a 30 em. wide column as the appropriate width for this site. It presents as elegant and formal, while being far more comfortable to read than before. I hope you feel the same way.