### A Changed Alliance
A few days after American President Donald Trump's [truly horrendous meeting](https://hansonbrook.com/Posts/2025-03-01-a-catastrophic-meeting) with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy last week, Mr. Trump cut Ukraine off from American aid and intelligence. On Thursday, the same day as a major European Union summit, he again threatened [to leave defenseless](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/03/07/world/europe/europe-self-defense-trump.html) NATO members who fail to spend two percent of their G.D.P. on security. In light of the seemingly seismic shift in American foreign policy, the international order is rapidly working to adapt.
In Europe, NATO has been reorganizing and restrategizing in the face of a United States apparently disinterested in following through on its preexisting international agreements. French President Emmanuel Macron has messaged that France will follow through on its Article Five commitments as a NATO member, up to, and including, [the use of nuclear weapons](https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/macron-hits-back-russian-fury-says-kremlin-feels-exposed-2025-03-06/). His likely soon-to-be German counterpart Friedrich Merz proposed spending €1 trillion on military and infrastructure. Some analysts believe that as Europe builds up its own security infrastructure, it may increasingly act [in its own interests](https://edition.cnn.com/2025/03/07/europe/nato-ukraine-survive-without-united-states-analysis-intl-hnk-ml/index.html) rather than those of the entire Western alliance.
One of my colleagues has suggested to me that decreasing commitments in Europe could be a good policy for the United States. According to this train of thought, reducing presence in Europe may be a necessary step in achieving a pivot towards Asia to balance the People's Republic of China. Such a maneuver, however, does not appear to be the plan of the Trump Administration. Trump's isolationist approach seems more reminiscent of a retreat back to "Fortress America" than a redirection of American resources to respond to new challenges.
Regardless of Mr. Trump's intentions, it seems almost indubitable that Europe will become more unified, more self-sufficient, and more militarily capable. While I suspect that the long term consequences of Mr. Trump's rearrangement of the international order will be bad for the United States, I suspect that it might actually prove quite beneficial for Europe as a geopolitical player.